Release notes 1.8 (#111506)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ob-release-notes-1-8.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
// * about/ob-release-notes.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ob-release-notes-1-8_{context}"]
= Release notes for {builds-shortname} 1.8

[role="_abstract"]
{builds-shortname} 1.8 is now available on {ocp-product-title} 4.xx.

[id="new-features-1-8_{context}"]
== New features

The following sections highlight what is new in {builds-shortname} 1.8:

Resource overrides for build steps::
With this update, you can define a `stepResources` field in the `Build` and `BuildRun` APIs to override CPU, memory, or ephemeral storage for specific steps. Before this update, resource requirements were hard-coded at the strategy level, which often necessitated duplicating strategies. This enhancement allows for fine-grained resource customization directly within `Build` or `BuildRun` specifications without modifying shared `BuildStrategy` or `ClusterBuildStrategy` definitions.

Support for custom runtime classes in builds::

> With this update, you can define a `runtimeClassName` field in the `Build` and `BuildRun` APIs to select specific container runtimes. You can run builds in sandbox environments, such as Kata containers, for hypervisor-level isolation. Additionally, this enables builds to connect to remote virtual machines on architectures not natively supported by the cluster, such as `s390x` and `RISC-V`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, you can define a `runtimeClassName` field in the `Build` and `BuildRun` APIs to select specific container runtimes for the build pod. You can run builds in sandboxed environments, such as Kata Containers, for hypervisor-level isolation. This is useful when building from untrusted sources or when compliance policies require stronger workload isolation than the default container runtime provides.
```

:FeatureName: Builds in sandbox containers
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="fixed-issues-1-8_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

OpenShift CLI version aligned with Red Hat OpenShift 1.6.0::

> Before this update, an outdated version of the CLI (0.14.0) on console.redhat.com misaligned with the downstream product. As a consequence, users saw version 0.14.0 instead of the correct version (1.6.0), which caused confusion and potential incompatibility. With this update, the CLI aligns with Red Hat OpenShift 1.6.0 (Shipwright 0.17.0). This ensures the CLI displays the correct version and improves clarity for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenShift Builds CLI version aligned with Red Hat OpenShift Builds product::
Previously, the shp CLI available for download on console.redhat.com reported version 0.14.0 with no additional build information. This version corresponded to the Builds 1.3 release, which has reached end of life, and did not match the current Red Hat OpenShift Builds product version. With this update, the CLI available at console.redhat.com is aligned to the latest release of Red Hat OpenShift Builds and reports the correct product version.
```
